README.md, before:

# mblocks

This program is a multi-threaded memory-safe status monitor written in Rust.
It updates the status only when there is a change.

![example](./screenshots/screenshot_1.png) 

## Installation

First, clone this repository.
```
git clone https://gitlab.com/mhdy/mblocks.git
```

Then, configure the status blocks by editing `src/config.rs`.

Next, build a release binary.
```
cargo build --release
```

If the build succeeds, the binary can be found in `target/release/mblocks`.

Finally, move the executable to one directory of your PATH directories, and add `mblocks &` to your `~/.xinitrc`.

## Configuration

The status monitor can be configured directly in the source `src/config.rs`.
Examples of `src/config.rs` can be found [here](https://gitlab.com/mhdy/mblocks/-/blob/master/src/config.rs) and [here](https://gitlab.com/mhdy/mde/-/blob/master/mblocks/src/config.rs).

Status blocks are defined in the `BLOCKS` vector.
Each block has a kind, executes a command, and has a prefix and a suffix for formatting. 

There are 3 kinds of blocks:

- Once: blocks labeled with this kind are executed once at the start of the program.
- Interval(N): blocks of this type are executed every N seconds.
- Signal(S): these blocks are executed when the signal S is sent to the mblocks process. To send a signal, you can use `kill -$((34 + S)) $(pidof mblocks)` where `S` is the argument given to Signal, and it should not exceed 15 (1 <= S <= 15). This means you can define at most 15 Signal blocks, which is large enough.

The `command` attribute corresponds to the command to be executed and can be one of the following:

- Shell(COMMAND): this executes the shell command given as arguments (e.g. ` Shell(&["date", "+%a, %b %d %Y"])`). Note the `&` preceding the array of arguments!
- Function(F): this executes the Rust function F given as argument. These latter can be placed in the directory `src/blocks/`. Check out the example functions.

The configuration file also defines the `SEPARATOR` between blocks, which could be any string. The generated status starts with the value of `PREFIX` and ends with the value of `SUFFIX`.

## Misc.

- If an empty string `""` is returned by a block execution, then the corresponding block will not be displayed.
- If the exit status of a `Shell` command is non-zero, then `failed` will be shown in the status (in the corresponding block).
- If a `Function` command returns `None`, then `failed` will be shown in the status (in the corresponding block).
- mblocks is memory-safe; it is validated with valgrind. The memory leaks shown by valgrind are false positives related to the signal-hook crate.

## License

MIT.

Commit message:

docs: update readme attributing original author

README.md, after:

This is my fork of the excellent [mblocks](https://gitlab.com/mhdy/mblocks) software, by
Mehdi Z., who managed to flawlessly implement the suckless philosophy in a Rust program.
The code is self-documenting and can be extended and hacked on, even without extensive
knowledge of Rust, because of the ease of use and intuitive nature of the code. 

My changes merely involve what information is displayed in the statusbar, not how it
functions. 

Original README continues below: 

# mblocks

This program is a multi-threaded memory-safe status monitor written in Rust.
It updates the status only when there is a change.

![example](./screenshots/screenshot_1.png) 

## Installation

First, clone this repository.
```
git clone https://gitlab.com/mhdy/mblocks.git
```

Then, configure the status blocks by editing `src/config.rs`.

Next, build a release binary.
```
cargo build --release
```

If the build succeeds, the binary can be found in `target/release/mblocks`.

Finally, move the executable to one directory of your PATH directories, and add `mblocks &` to your `~/.xinitrc`.

## Configuration

The status monitor can be configured directly in the source `src/config.rs`.
Examples of `src/config.rs` can be found [here](https://gitlab.com/mhdy/mblocks/-/blob/master/src/config.rs) and [here](https://gitlab.com/mhdy/mde/-/blob/master/mblocks/src/config.rs).

Status blocks are defined in the `BLOCKS` vector.
Each block has a kind, executes a command, and has a prefix and a suffix for formatting. 

There are 3 kinds of blocks:

- Once: blocks labeled with this kind are executed once at the start of the program.
- Interval(N): blocks of this type are executed every N seconds.
- Signal(S): these blocks are executed when the signal S is sent to the mblocks process. To send a signal, you can use `kill -$((34 + S)) $(pidof mblocks)` where `S` is the argument given to Signal, and it should not exceed 15 (1 <= S <= 15). This means you can define at most 15 Signal blocks, which is large enough.

The `command` attribute corresponds to the command to be executed and can be one of the following:

- Shell(COMMAND): this executes the shell command given as arguments (e.g. ` Shell(&["date", "+%a, %b %d %Y"])`). Note the `&` preceding the array of arguments!
- Function(F): this executes the Rust function F given as argument. These latter can be placed in the directory `src/blocks/`. Check out the example functions.

The configuration file also defines the `SEPARATOR` between blocks, which could be any string. The generated status starts with the value of `PREFIX` and ends with the value of `SUFFIX`.

## Misc.

- If an empty string `""` is returned by a block execution, then the corresponding block will not be displayed.
- If the exit status of a `Shell` command is non-zero, then `failed` will be shown in the status (in the corresponding block).
- If a `Function` command returns `None`, then `failed` will be shown in the status (in the corresponding block).
- mblocks is memory-safe; it is validated with valgrind. The memory leaks shown by valgrind are false positives related to the signal-hook crate.

## License

MIT.
